Welcome back to part two of form fields.
We're going to continue right where we left off last time by heading over to the templates and connecting
our flask form fields to our actual template each html files.
Let's continue.
All right so I have my basic thought py file in my application python file filled out with the forms
as well as views for an index page and a thank you page.
We need to do now is connect these functions to actual templates.
Let's start with our home page for index.
We're going to do here is pretty simple just say welcome to the puppy survey.
So that'll be our header and then we're going to put form form.
There we go.
And we actually don't need a class or action here because we're using W.T. forms.
We're going to start off by inputting the hidden tag for security.
So say for dot the hidden underscore tag and then we're going to set the Breede first we'll say form
dog breed label and then we'll go ahead and say form dog breed and this is the same sort of thing we're
going to do for each field and we're going to add a break statement so that they each show up on a new
line.
So then the next one is going to be form the neutered label and they'll say form dog neutered
and the next one's going to be form and we'll say food choice grabbed the label for that one and then
to us formed dog food choice
at a break.
And let's also put in the mood label so we'll say form that mood that label and then we'll see form
the mood and we'll add another break.
And just a quick note you can always add in text in between any of these fields in your form so I can
say something like any other feedback question mark and then insert form feedback
and we can have a break in between the line.
Any other feedback.
And then the actual feedback text area.
And then finally let's have a submit button.
So say form dog submit open close princes save that and as quick reminder in case you ever want to add
in your own custom classes to any of these.
All you need to do is say form the food choice and then inside of this say class and connected to some
CSSA class.
In our case we don't really have a thesis file to go along with this so just put it through choice.
All right.
So that's basically all we need for our form.
Just to hit tag and then the labels and the actual attributes that correspond with the form that we
created here.
So we have in full form.
And remember repassing in that form right here after we create an instance of it into our studies to.
Which is why we're able to call it from the html file.
Now let's go to our page and for the thank you page you're going to have a letter saying thank you.
Here is the info you gave us.
And we're going to have an ordered list and we're to start off with the breed and then from our session
we're going to grab the Breede key.
So notice here how if I come back to basic pie form I think Page I'm actually feeding in the session
because we imported session from flask.
We can actually just have the session live for that particular user's session so we don't need to pass
it in.
That's why it's a special object and we can just say session Breede neutered mood food and feedback's
are essentially going to be using all of these.
So let's put them in.
So we'll say Breede past them and then we can also put session and then neutered
and then we can just add in a bunch of list items here.
It's up to you how much you want to label these.
And then we can say mood
session.
So in it's a mood something to note here is or calling mood.
If we come back and look what we're actually saving it's saving the mood data and if we come back up
here that means it's actually saving mood one or two.
It's not saving happy or excited.
So we'll see that play out on the thank you page.
We'll see.
CHRY B.F. and fish instead of what was actually provided.
Chicken beef and fish.
The difference between values and the labels that you're providing in your choices.
Just keep that in mind.
So we have our mood there and then we have a couple of more things to fill out the food that was chosen.
Well say session I will say that's food.
And then the feedback say feedback and then call our session object again and grab the feedback.
All right.
So essentially just reporting back everything that was put into the form.
Let's save this and let's make sure we don't make any errors here by running our code.
So I got to say Python basic about pi.
Enter And let me expand this.
Looks like it's running may have to do a little debugging.
You never know.
Let's run it over here and bring this over.
Looks like my general puppie survey is working.
I'm pretty zoomed in here.
Keep that in mind.
So it says what are you.
I will say I'm a lab.
We'll say the radio box have been neutered.
You get to chicken.
B fish will say fish are happy or excited because they are happy.
And the other feedback you are great let's hit submit.
Make sure that works OK and that is a sink.
Here's the info you gave us and then we have that list Labbe true.
And then here you can notice I have mood underscore one.
Notice how I'm actually saving that value instead of the label.
So if I come back here happy and excited are those labels but mood one is what I'm actually grabbing
and saving to the session.
That's the data that's passed in.
So if I come back to basic that pie again the data is going to be that first item in the tuple mood
one and move to fish here.
You notice it's lower case on our page.
Thank you.
If I select a chicken I should have seen S.H. high and if I had selected beef I would have just seen
B.F..
All right.
And that's the basics of how we can connect the form to those template files and how we can use a session
to actually grab a user's session information as well as saving it in our actual function view.
OK.
Coming up next we're going to continue our discussion about flask forms.
We'll see you at the next lecture.